Peter Constantine. <br>

ln Westplialia, in the castle of Baron Thunder-Ten-Tronckh, there lived a young boy whom nature had endowed with the sweetest disposition. His face was a reflection of his soul. His judgment was fairly straightforward and his mind of the simplest. It is for this reason, I believe, that he was named Candide. The old servants of the castle suspected that he was the son of the baron’s sister and a good and honest gentleman of those parts whom the young lady did not wish to marry, as he could claim only seventy-one heraldic quarterings of noble lineage, the rest of his family tree having been lost to the ravages of time. <br>

The baron was one of the most powerful lords of Westphalia, for his castle had windows and a door. His great hall was even adorned with a tapestry. All the dogs from his farmyards were rounded up into a hunting pack whenever the need arose, and his grooms acted as his hunting whips. The vicar of the Village served as his private almoner. Everyone called the baron “Your Grace” and laughed at his stories. <br>

The baroness, whose weight of some three hundred and fifty pounds had made her a figure of considerable importance, carried out the honors of the household with a dignity that made her even more respectable. Her daughter, Cunégonde, seventeen years of age, had a ﬂushed complexion and was fresh, fat, and piquant. The baron’s son seemed in every respect worthy of his father. Pangloss, the tutor, was the oracle of the house, and young Candide followed his lessons with all the good faith of his age and character. <br>

Pangloss taught metaphysico-theologico-cosmo-idiotology. He could demonstrate quite admirably that there is no effect without a cause, and that in this best of all possible worlds, His Grace the Baron’s castle was the finest of castles and Her Grace the Baroness the best of all possible baronesses. <br>

“It has been demonstrated,” Pangloss used to say, “that things cannot be otherwise: for as everything has been made for a purpose, everything is necessarily made for the best purpose. Note that noses were made to bear spectacles, and hence we have spectacles. Legs were obviously instituted in order to wear breeches, and hence we have breeches. Stones were formed to be quarried and used to build castles, and hence His Grace has a very fine castle. The greatest baron of the province must also be the best housed. And as pigs have been made to be eaten, we eat pork all year round. Consequently, those who propose that all is well are talking nonsense: They should say that all is best." <br>

Candide listened attentively and believed innocently, for he found Mademoiselle Cunégonde extremely beautiful, even if he had never summoned up the courage to tell her so. He concluded that after the good fortune of being horn Baron Thunder-Ten-Tronckh, the second degree of good fortune was to be Mademoiselle Cunégonde, the third to see her every day, and the fourth to hear Doctor Pangloss, the greatest philosopher in all the province and, consequently, the world. <br>

One day Cunégonde was walking near the castle in a small wood that was called “the park,” when she saw Doctor Pangloss in the underhrush giving a lesson in experimental physics to her mother’s chamhermaid, a pretty and obedient brunette. As Mademoiselle Cunégonde had a great aptitude for science, she watched with bated breath the repeated experiments to which she was witness. She perceived with great clarity the doctor’s sufficient reason, the effects and their causes, and returned to the castle quite excited, deep in thought, and filled with the desire to be learned, reflecting that she could well be young Candide’s sufﬁcient reason, and that he could also be hers. <br>

As she was returning to the castle, she happened upon Candide and blushed. Candide blushed too. She greeted him in a faltering voice, and Candide spoke to her without knowing what he was saving. The following day, after din- ner, as everyone left the table, Cunégonde and Candide en- countered each other behind a screen. Cunégonde dropped her handkerchief, Candide picked it up, she imiocently took his hand, and the young man innocently kissed hers with exceptional vivacity, feeling, and grace. Their lips met, their eyes ﬂashed, their knees trembled, and their hands strayed. Baron Thunder-Ten-Tronckh walked past the screen and, observing this cause and effect, chased Candide from the castle with hard kicks to his backside. Cunégnnde fainted, and the baroness slapped her the in- stant she came to. And all was consternation in this finest and most charming of all possible castles.

