David Wootton. <br>

In Westphalia, in the castle of His Excellency the Baron of Thunder—ten-tronckh, there was once a young man on whom nature had bestowed the sweetest of dispositions. You could read his soul by watching the expressions on his face. He was not without intelligence, but he was incapable of being devious; I presume this was why he was called Candide.4 The older household servants suspected that he was the son of His Excellency the Baron’s sister, and that his father was a good and honest gentleman who lived in the neighborhood. The baron’s sister had never been willing to marry this man because he could only demonstrate that seventy—one of his ancestors were nobles; the others may also have been, but it had proved impossible to trace his genealogy far enough back in time. <br>

His Excellency the Baron was one of the most powerful noblemen in Westphalia, for his castle had a door and it had windows. His great hall was even decorated with a tapestry. When required, all the dogs in the farm yards would be assembled to form a pack; his stable boys were transformed into huntsmen; the priest in the local village became his chaplain. They all addressed him as “Your Excellency,” and laughed at the stories he told. <br>

The baron’s wife, who weighed around three hundred and fifty pounds, was regarded as a person of substance, and welcomed guests with a self-possession that made her all the more distinguished. Her daughter Cunégonde was seventeen, with pink cheeks and a fresh complexion; she was plump and delectable. The baron’s son appeared to be in every respect worthy of his father. Nobody disagreed with anything that their tutor, who was called Pangloss, said, and as little Candide listened to his teaching he was as tractable as one might expect a student of his age and his character to be.  <br>

Pangloss taught metaphysico—theologico—cosmolonigology. He demonstrated beautifully that there is no effect without a cause, and that, in this the best of all possible worlds, the castle of His Excellency the Baron was the most beautiful of all castles, and his wife was the best of all possible baronesses. <br>

“It can be demonstrated,” he would say, “that things could not be other than they are: for everything has been made to serve a purpose, and so nothing is susceptible to improvement. Just see how noses are designed to support spectacles, and indeed we have spectacles. It’s obvious that legs were constructed to ﬁt trousers, and we have trousers to ﬁt them. Rock was made to be quarried, cut, and turned into castles, and thus his excellency has a very beautiful castle; naturally the most important baron in the province ought to be the best housed. Pigs were made to be eaten, and we eat pork throughout the year. So I conclude that those who have argued that all is well can’t be taken seriously; they should have said that nothing could be better.” <br>

Candide listened carefully and believed without hesitation; for he was of the view that Miss Cunégonde was extremely beautiful, though he never summoned up the courage to tell her so. He concluded that after the happiness of being born Baron of Thunder-ten-tronckh, the second degree of happiness was to be Miss Cunégonde, the third to see her every day, and the fourth to listen to Dr. Pangloss, the ﬁnest philosopher in the province, and consequently the most important in the whole world. <br>

One day Cunégonde was out for a stroll near the castle, in the little wood that was called “the park.” Through the bushes she caught sight of Dr. Pangloss, who was giving a lesson in experimental physics to her mother’s serving girl, a little brunette who was very pretty and very pliable. As Miss Cunégonde had a genuine interest in the sciences, she watched (without so much as breathing) the series of experiments of which she was the witness; she could plainly see the doctor’s sufficient reason,9 the effects and the causes. She set out for home exceedingly agitated, very thoughtful, entirely suffused with the desire for knowledge, thinking to herself that she could well be the sufﬁcient reason of young Candide, while he could be hers. <br>

She bumped into Candide when she got back to the castle, and blushed; Candide blushed too. She said “good day” to him with a catch in her breath. Candide replied to her without knowing what he was saying. Next day, after dinner, when everyone was getting down from table, Cunégonde and Candide found themselves hidden behind a screen. Cunégonde let her handkerchief drop; Candide picked it up. Innocently she took his hand in hers; innocently the young man kissed the hand of the young lady, doing so with a liveliness, a sensitivity, a gracefulness that was all his own. Their lips met; their eyes shone; their knees trembled; their hands strayed. His Excellency the Baron of Thunder—ten-tronckh passed near the screen and saw this cause and this effect. He chased Candide out of the castle with a series of hefty kicks on his backside. Cunégonde fainted. She was whipped by Her Excellency the Baroness as soon as she regained consciousness. And in the most beautiful and the most delightful of possible castles everything was upside down and back to front.

