Google Translate.

In the last decades the interest in hunger artists is very diminished. While it formerly well worth it to organize large demonstrations such on their own, this is completely impossible. There were different times. At that time occupied the whole city with the hunger artist; of of hunger of hunger rose to participation; everyone wanted the hunger artist at least once daily see; in the latter days there were subscribers, who sat for days in front of the small barred cage; also took place in the night visits, to increase the effect by torchlight; On fine days the cage was carried out into the open, and now it was especially the children, which the hunger artist was shown; while he was often only fun for the adults, where they participated for the sake of fashion, the children for the sake of security watched in amazement, with my mouth open, one another by the hand holding to as pale, in black jersey, projecting with powerful ribs, even a chair disdaining, sat on hingestreutem straw, once politely nodding intently smiling questions answered, by 984the lattice arm stretched to make feel its thinness, but then again quite sank in itself to anyone caring not even sipped at the all-important for him beat the clock, which was the only piece of furniture of the cage, but looked just right with almost closed eyes and here and there from a tiny glass of water to moisten his lips.
In addition to changing audience also constant, chosen by the audience guards were there, oddly enough, usually butchers, who, always three at the same time, had the task of observing day and night the hunger artist, so he does not yet take some on some secret way food. It was the only but a formality, introduced to reassure the masses, for the initiates knew well that the hunger artist would never have eaten during the famine under any circumstances, even under non-coercive, even the slightest thing only; the honor of his art forbade it. Of course, not every guard could understand, sometimes it found itself nocturnal waking groups, which very lax conducted the surveillance, intentionally together sat in a far corner and there to indulge in the card game recessed in the manifest intention of the hunger artist a small refreshment, he could bring out from some secret supplies of their opinion. Nothing was agonizing hunger artist than such guardian; they made ​​him gloomy; they made ​​him starving terribly difficult; Sometimes he overcame his weakness and sang during the waking hours, as long as he could keep it to show people how unjust they suspected him. But the little helped; she then wondered just about his skill, even to eat while singing. Him were much prefer the Guardian, which sat close to the grid, with the dim night lighting of the hall were not satisfied, but exposed him to the electric flashlights that put them impresario available. The glare does not bother him, he could not sleep so he could hindämmern and a little more, in all lighting conditions and at all hours, even in crowded, noisy room. He was very happy to spend the night with such guards entirely without sleep; he was ready to joke with them, to tell them stories of his wandering life, then again to listen to their stories, anything to keep alive only to have them to show them again and again to that 985he had no food in the cage and that he was hungry, as none of them could. But he was happiest when then came the morning, and over them a rich breakfast was brought on his behalf, to which they hurled themselves with the appetite of healthy men after a painfully sleepless night.There were even people who wanted to see in this breakfast undue influence of the guards, but it went too far, and if you asked them whether about they wanted to take over the night watch without breakfast only for its own sake, they are gone, but their suspicions they remained still.
This was implicit to the lack of food not to be separated suspicions. No one was even able to spend all the days and nights at the hunger artist continuously as a guard, so no one could know from personal experience, if was really uninterrupted, error-starved; only the hunger artist himself could know that, so he just be the same of his hunger completely satisfied audience. But he was never again satisfied for some other reason; maybe he was not so very emaciated from starvation, that some had to regretfully the demonstrations stay away because they could not stand the sight of him, but he was just so emaciated from dissatisfaction with himself. He alone knew namely, no insider else knew how easy it was starving. It was the easiest thing in the world. He did not conceal it, but no one believed him, thought he was the best case for modest, but usually for advertisement addictive or even a swindler, the starvation was however slightly, because he knew how easy to make it, and even the forehead had to confess it halfway. All he had to accept, had accustomed over the years to it, but inside this dissatisfaction always gnawed at him, and never, by any period of starvation - this witness had to exhibit him - he had voluntarily left the cage. As a maximum time for the starvation of the impresario had set forty days, moreover he was never hungry, even in the cities of the world failed, and for good reason. About forty days one could experience shows incite by gradually increasing advertising the interest of a city more and more, but then failed the public, a significant decrease of the exhortation was observed; there were of course in this respect 986small differences between cities and countries, as a rule, however, was that forty days was the maximum time. So then the door of the garlanded with flowers cage was on the fortieth day opened, an enthusiastic audience filled the amphitheater, played a military band, two doctors entered the cage to make the necessary measurements of the hunger artist, through a megaphone, the results were announced the Saale, and finally came two young ladies, happy that they had just been drawn, and wanted the hunger artist down lead from the cage a few levels, where on a small table a carefully chosen hospital meal was served. And in that moment the hunger artist always fought. Although he laid his bones still voluntary arms in the helpful outstretched hands of the diffracted down to him ladies, but he did not want to get up. Why stop now just after forty days? He would have long endured it unlimited long;why stop now, where he was the best, not even in the best starvation? Why would you deprive him of the glory to further starve, to be not only the largest hunger artist of all time, which he probably was, yes, but also to surpass themselves to the incomprehensible, because starving for his ability he felt no boundaries , Why had this amount pretended to admire him so much, so little patience with him;when he could stand it, to further starve, why they did not want to endure? Also, he was tired, sat well in the straw and it should now raise high and long and go to the food that already caused him alone in the imagination nausea, whose utterance he laboriously suppressed only with regard to the ladies. And he looked up into the eyes of the seemingly friendly, in reality so cruel ladies and shook over heavy on the weak neck head. But then happened what always happened. The impresario came, picked mute - the music made ​​talking impossible - the arms over the hunger artist, as if inviting the sky one, his work here on the straw to see again, this unfortunate martyr, who was the hunger artist, however, only in quite another sense; grabbed the hunger artist around the thin waist, said he wanted to make credible by excessive caution, as a frail thing he had to do it here; and handed him - not to shake without him in secret a little, so that the 987hunger artist uncontrollably with your legs and your upper body swaying back and forth - the deadly pale has since become ladies. Now the hunger artist endured everything; the head lay on his chest, it was as if he had executed rolls and think there inexplicable; the body was hollowed out; the legs expressed in self-preservation firmly in the knees together, but pawed the ground but, as it was not the real, the real they sought only; and the whole, however, very small weight of the body was lying on one of the ladies, which for help, panting - so had they this volunteering not presented - first the neck as possible stretched to at least save face before the contact with the hunger artist but then, since it did not succeed and their more fortunate companion did not come to her aid, but contented himself with trembling hand the hunger artist, this little bundle of bones, herzutragen before him, broke out among the delighted laughter of the room in tears and from a long provided servants had to be replaced. Then came the food, the impresario of the hunger artist during a blackout like half sleep a little inspired, under funny chatting, should distract attention from the state of the hunger artist; then, a toast was still spread on the audience, which had been the impresario allegedly whispered the hunger artist; the orchestra confirmed everything with a great fanfare; we broke up and no one had the right to be dissatisfied with the seen, no one, only the hunger artist, only he.
So he lived with regular small breaks for many years, in apparent gloss, honored by the world, in all this but mostly cloudy mood, which was still murky in that no one understood it to be taken seriously. What should comfort him also? Wish to what could he do? And when once found a natured, the pitied him and tried to explain to him that his sadness probably came from starvation, it could, particularly in advanced starvation time, happen that the hunger artist responded with an outburst of rage and horror of such an animal to began to shake the grid. But had a criminal agent that he liked anwandte for such states the impresario. He apologized the hunger artist before the assembled audience, admitted, 988that only caused by starvation, could make for rich people not readily understandable irritability the behavior of the hunger artist's forgivable; then came in connection therewith also on the explanatory statement as to the hunger artist to speak, he could be a lot more hungry than he hungry; praised the high pursuit, the good will, the great self-denial, which are certainly included in this assertion; But then examined the assertion by showing just enough of the photographs which were sold at the same time to refute, because the pictures we saw the hunger artist at one fortieth of hunger, in bed, almost goes out from exhaustion. This hunger artist, although well known, but again and again it unnerving twist the truth it was too much. What was the result of the early termination of starvation, one presented here as the cause! Against this folly to fight against this world of foolishness, it was impossible. Yet he had always eagerly listened in good faith on the grid impresario, at the appearance of the photographs but he left the grid each time going on, sank with sighing back into the straw, and the reassured public could zoom come back and visit him.
If the witnesses of such scenes thought back a few years later because they were often even incomprehensible. For now those mentioned shift had occurred; almost suddenly had happened; it might have deeper reasons, but who was it, locate it; at any rate, one day the pampered hunger artist of the pleasure-seeking crowd saw leave the scene rather streamed to other positions. Once again the impresario chased him through half of Europe, to see whether not yet here and there to find again the old interest; all in vain; as in a secret agreement, a distaste for the spectacle starvation had formed almost everywhere. Of course, this was in reality can not suddenly come to you now and later remembered some of their time did not notice enough noise in the results, not enough suppressed harbinger, but now to do something about it was too late. Although it was certain that once and for starving again the time will come, but for the living that was no consolation. What to do now the hunger artist? He whom thousands had cheered, could not show in sideshows at small fairs, and a 989to take another job, the hunger artist was not only old, but mainly found starvation too fanatical. So he adopted because the impresario, the members of a career unparalleled, and was quickly engaged by a large circus; to spare his sensitivity, he saw the conditions of contract not to.
A large circus with its myriad of each other again and again balancing and additional people and animals and devices can each and use at any time, even a hunger artist, with correspondingly modest claims, of course, and besides, it was so in this particular case, not only the hunger artist himself who was engaged, but also his old famous name, so you could not even tell that a retired, no longer standing on the height of his artist wanted to flee in a quiet circus items in the nature of these non-decreasing with increasing age art, On the contrary, the hunger artist declared that he, what was quite credible, just as well starve as before, yes he even claimed that he would, if you let him have his way, and this is promised to him readily, only really now the world put in legitimate astonishment, an assertion, however, the evoked with regard to mood of the times, which easily forgot the hunger artist in zeal for the experts just a smile.
Basically but also the hunger artist did not lose sight of the real conditions and took it for granted that you do not put him in his cage about as a highlight in the middle of the ring, but outside in an easily accessible otherwise quite place near the stables housed. Large, colorful painted inscriptions framed the cage and announced what was to be seen there. If the audience urged in the pauses of the idea to the stables to visit the animals, it was almost inevitable that it was passing the hunger artist and a little halted there, you might be longer with him remained, if not in the narrow passage thronging, which would not have understood this stay on the way to the coveted stables, made ​​a longer peaceful observation impossible. This was also the reason why the hunger artist, but also shivered again before these visiting hours, which he described as his life's purpose, of course longed for. In the first time he had the idea breaks 990can hardly wait; delighted he had of himself heranwälzenden amount entgegengesehn until he too soon - even the most stubborn, almost deliberate self-deception kept the experience was not - it convinced that it mostly in intention, always, without exception, were all stable visitor. And the sight of the distance was still the most beautiful. Because if they were to approached to him, immediately umtobte him screaming and ranting of incessently forming parties, those which - it was the hunger artist soon the embarrassing - wanted to see him comfortable, not out of understanding, but from mood and defiance, and that second, the first demanded only by the stables. Was over the great mass, then the stragglers, and these were, however, where it was no longer forbidden to stand as long as they had only pleasure, hurried with long strides, almost without side view, past, to come in time for the animals , And it was not too often luck that a father with his children came, pointed his finger at the hunger artist, in detail explained what it was here, told from previous years, where he had been at similar but incomparably grander demonstrations , and then the children, although still remained uncomprehending owing to the inadequate preparation of school life and her - what was starving them? - But in the splendor of its searching eyes betrayed something new, upcoming, more gracious times. Perhaps, the hunger artist said then sometimes, but everything would be a little better if its location would be not so close to the stables. People the choice was thus made ​​too easy, not to mention that very injured and permanently oppressed him the effluvia of the stables, the restlessness of the animals in the night, the passing wearing raw meat for the predators who cries when feeding. But at the Directorate to intervene, he did not dare; after all, he owed ​​so the animals the amount of visitors, among which here and there could also find him for Specific, and who knew where they would hide him if he wanted to remember his life and thus the fact that he, strictly speaking, only an obstacle on the way to the stables was.
A small obstacle, however, an increasingly small obstacle. We got used to the strangeness, in today's times attention for a hunger artist to take 991want, and with this familiarity the verdict was talking about him. He might as well go hungry, as he could, and he did it, but nothing could save him more, they passed him by. Trying to explain to someone the hunger Art! Who does not feel it, which one can not be made ​​to understand it. The beautiful inscriptions were dirty and illegible, they tore it down, no one noticed it one to replace it; the tablet with the number of reckonable hunger days, which had been carefully every day again in the first time, have long remained always the same, because after the first few weeks the staff even this little work was become weary; and so indeed hungry the hunger artist further, as he had once dreamed of, and succeeded without difficulty just as he had predicted back then, but no one counted the days, no one, not even the hunger artist himself knew how big the performance was, and his heart was heavy. And once in the time a loafer stopped making fun of the old clock and spoke of dizziness, so it was in this sense the stupidest lie could invent some indifference and inborn malice, since not the hunger artist cheating, he worked honestly but the world was cheating him of his reward.
But again passed many days, and also came to an end. Once an overseer of the cage fell on, and he asked the servant why you leave here are this good usable cage with the rotting straw inside unused; nobody knew it until one remembered using the Paragraph panel to the hunger artist. The mixture was stirred with rods on the straw and found the hunger artist is. ? "You still starving," said the overseer, "when are you going to finally stop" "Forgive me all," whispered the hunger artist; only the overseer, who held the ear to the bars, understood him. "Certainly," said the overseer, and put his finger to his forehead, so that the condition of the hunger artist to indicate to the staff, "we forgive you." "Constantly I wanted you to admire my fasting," said the hunger artist. "We do admire it," said the overseer accommodating. "But that you may not admire it," said the hunger artist. "Well, so we do not admire it," said the overseer, "why should we admire it not?" "Because I have to go hungry, I can not help it," said 992of the hunger artist. "There just look a," said the overseer, "why can not you mind?" "Because I," said the hunger artist, her head lifted a little and talked to like to kiss his lips pursed just in the ear of the overseer in, so that nothing would be lost, "because I could not find the food that tastes good. If I had found it, believe me, I would have made ​​no fuss and fully stuffed myself like you and all. "Those were the last words, but even in his broken eyes was the firm, though no longer proud persuasion that he weiterhungre.
"But now makes right!" Said the overseer, and they buried the hunger artist along with the straw.In the cage but it was a young panther. There was a sense even the dullest tangible recovery in which so long barren cage this wild animal to see themselves throw around. He lacked nothing. The food tasted him, brought him without a second thought the guards; not even the freedom he seemed to miss; this noble, with everything you need to just to tear appointed body also seemed to carry around with them the freedom; somewhere in the teeth they seemed stuck; and the joy came alive with such a strong glow of his mouth, that it was not easy for the audience to resist her. But they overcame themselves, crowded around the cage and did not want to continually stir.