James H Montgomery. <br> 

In a village of La Mancha, whose name I have no intention to recall, there lived not long ago one of those old—fashioned hidalgos who always a lance in the rack, an ancient buckler, a skinny nag, and a swift greyhound for hunt- ing. A daily stew consisting of more beef than mutton, hash almost every evening, “grief and sorrows” on Saturdays, lentils on Fridays, and a pigeon or so extra on Sundays consumed three-fourths of his income, the remainder going for a doublet of broadcloth, velvet breeches with their matching slippers for feast days, and the ﬁnest homespun suit, which he sported on weekdays. His household consisted of a housekeeper past forty, a niece not yet twenty, and a servant lad for town and country, who did everything from saddling his horse to pruning his trees. Our hidalgo, who was just this side of fifty, had a robust constitution, a wizened face, little flesh on his bones, an ingrained habit of rising early, and a passion for the hunt. There are those who would have us believe his family name was Quijada or Quesada (there being some diﬁerence of opinion among the authorities writing on the subject), though by plausible conjectures one is forced to conclude that his name was Quejana, but since none of this is of the slightest importance to our story, it will suffice if our narration of it does not stray one iota from the truth.
It should be noted at this point that during his moments of leisure, which amounted to the greater part of the year, the above-mentioned hidalgo surrendered himself with such enthusiasm and dedication to reading books of chivalry that he all but neglected the pursuit of hunting and even the admin- istration of his estate, and his curiosity and folly increased to the point that he sold off a number of acres of farmland to buy books of chivalry he could pore over, carrying home as many as he could lay his hands on. Of all those various tomes, he thought none quite so good as those by the famous Feliciano de Silva, for the clarity of his prose and his involved conceits were simply too beautiful for words, especially in those amorous passages and challenges to duels, such as the following: <br> 

The reason for my reason ’s being subject to your unreason so weakens my reason that, with reason, I protest me of your beauty. <br> 

Or again: <br> 

Those divine heavens, which because of your divine nature, fortify you divinely with the stars and make you deserving of that desert your greatness deserves. <br> 

As a result of such locutions as these our poor gentleman was slowly losing his wits and would lie awake nights trying to understand them and unravel their meaning, which Aristotle himself could not have unraveled or understood had he been resurrected for just that purpose. He was not entirely satisﬁed with the wounds Don Belianis inﬂicted and received, arguing that, regardless of the skill of the surgeons who tended his wounds, his entire face and body could hardly fail to be covered with scabs and scars. But, for all that, he praised the author for the way he terminated his book with his promise of an interminable adventure, and he oftentimes got the urge to take up his pen and ﬁnish it himself exactly as it is therein promised, and doubtless would have done so and even been successful at it, had not other greater preoccupations constantly kept him from it. It was his custom to debate with the priest of his village, a learned man and graduate of Siguenza, as to who had been the superior knight, Palmerin of England or Amadis of Gaul, but Master Nicolas, a barber of his village, said no one could equal the Knight of Phoebus, adding that if anyone could compare with him, it would be Don Galaor, brother of Amadis of Gaul, whose nature allowed him to adapt to any type of situation, since he was not a finicky knight nor was he as whining as his brother, and in the matter ofvalor was not one step behind him. In a word, Don Quixote became so engrossed in his books that he spent all his nights from dusk until dawn, and all his days from dawn until dusk, poring over them, so that from little sleep and much reading his brain dried up and he ﬁnally lost his wits. <br> 

