Walter Starkie. <br> 

At a village of La Mancha, whose name I do not wish to remember, there lived a little while ago one of those gentlemen who are wont to keep a lance in the rack, an old buckler, a lean horse and a swift greyhound. His stew had more beef than mutton in it and most nights he ate the remains salted and cold. Lentil soup on Fridays, “tripe and trouble” on Saturdays and an occasional pigeon as an extra delicacy on Sundays, consumed three-quarters of his income. The remainder was spent on a jerkin of ﬁne puce, velvet breeches, and slippers of the same stuff for holidays, and a suit of good, honest homespun for weekdays. His family consisted of a housekeeper about forty, a niece not yet twenty, and a lad who served him both in the ﬁeld and at home and could saddle the horse or use the pruning-knife. <br> 

Our gentleman was about ﬁfty years of age, of a sturdy constitution, but wizened and gaunt-featured, an early riser and a devotee of the chase. They say that his surname was Quixada or Quesada (for on this point the authors who have written on this subject differ), but we may reasonably conjecture that his name was Quixana. This, however, has very little to do with our story: enough that in its telling we swerve not a jot from the truth. <br> 

You must know that the above-mentioned gentleman in his leisure moments (which was most of the year) gave himself up with so much delight and gusto to reading books of chivalry that he almost entirely neglected the exercise of the chase and even the management of his domestic affairs: indeed his craze for this kind of literature became so extravagant that he sold many acres of arable land to purchase books of knight-errantry. and he carried off to his house as many as he could possibly ﬁnd. <br> 

Above all he preferred those written by the famous Feliciano de Silva on account of the clarity of his writing and his intricate style, which made him value those books more than pearls; especially when he read of those courtships and letters of challenge that knights sent to ladies, often containing expressions such as “the reason for your unreasonable treatment of my reason, so enfeebles my reason that I have reason to complain of your beauty”. And again: “the high heavens which, with your divinity, divinely fortify you with the stars and make you the deserver of the desert that is deserved by your greatness”. <br> 

These and similar rhapsodies bewildered the poor gentleman’s understanding, for he racked his brains day and night to unbowel their meaning, which not even Aristotle himself could have done, if he had been raised from the dead for that purpose. He was not quite convinced by the number of wounds which Don Belianis gave and received in battle, for he considered that however skilful the surgeons that cured him may have been, the worthy knight’s face and body must have been bedizened with scars and scabs. Nevertheless he praised that author for concluding his book with the promise of that endless adventure, and many times he felt inclined to take up his pen and ﬁnish it off himself as it is there promised. He doubtless would have done so, and successfully too, had he not been diverted by other plans and purposes of greater moment. <br> 
He often debated with the curate of the village——a man of learning, who had graduated in Siguenza—on the relative merits of Palmerin of England and Amadis of Gaul. But Master Nicholas, the village barber, afﬁrmed that no one could be compared to the Knight of the Sun: and that if, indeed, any could be matched with him, it was Don Galaor, the brother of Arnadis of Gaul, for he had a nature adapted to every whim of fortune: he was not so namby-pamby and whimpering a knight as his brother, and as for valour, he was in every respect his equal.

